_pages/6000SciComm.md, before:

---
layout: single
title: "FISH 6000: Science Communication for Fisheries"
permalink: /courses/6000SciComm/
author_profile: false
---

Our class meets once per week (Mondays, 9 AM to 12 PM) in **The SOF Seminar Room**.

## Course documents 

- [Course syllabus - HTML](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Syllabus/) and [PDF](/assets/images/FISH_6000_Syllabus.pdf)
- [Assignment guide - HTML](/courses/6000SciComm/FISH6000Assignmentguide/) and [PDF](/assets/images/FISH_6000_Assignment_guide.pdf)
- [Graphical assignment summary - PDF](/assets/images/GraphicalSummary.pdf)
- [Class code of conduct - HTML](/courses/coursesCodeofConduct/) and [PDF](/assets/images/FISHCodeofConduct.pdf)

## Course Content

My goal will be to publish slides by Friday prior to each lecture. Slides can be accessed from the links below.

These slides are designed to be viewed on a computer - **not printed.** They contain hyperlinks to relevant content.

| **Week**  | **Date** | **Theme**  |
|-----------|------------|-------------|
| 1         | September 11, 2017 | [The Production of Knowledge](/courses/6000SciComm/FISH6000Week1/) |
|2| September 18, 2017 | [The Science Publishing Ecosystem](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week2/) |
|3| September 25, 2017 | [Proposals](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week3/) | 
|4| October 2, 2017 | [Anatomy of a Science Paper Part 1](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week4/) |
|5| **Wed** October 11, 2017 | [Anatomy of a Science Paper Part 2](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week5/) |
|6| October 16, 2017 | [Oral Presentations](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week6) |
|7| October 23, 2017 | [Posters](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week7) |
|8| October 30, 2017 |  [Presentation Week](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week8) |
|9| November 6, 2017 | [Practicing Safe Science Communication + Popular Writing](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week9) |
|10| **Fri** November 17, 2017 | [Popular Communication](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week10) |
|11| November 20, 2017 | [Talking About Your Work](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week11) |
|12| November 27, 2017 | [Recap and Wrap-Up](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week12) |

Commit message:

Updating schedule for 6000
Schedule update 1

_pages/6000SciComm.md, after:

---
layout: single
title: "FISH 6000: Science Communication for Fisheries"
permalink: /courses/6000SciComm/
author_profile: false
---

Our class meets once per week (Mondays, 9 AM to 12 PM (tentative) ) in **Room TBA**.

## Course documents 
*not yet updated for Fall 2018)
- [Course syllabus - HTML](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Syllabus/) and [PDF](/assets/images/FISH_6000_Syllabus.pdf)
- [Assignment guide - HTML](/courses/6000SciComm/FISH6000Assignmentguide/) and [PDF](/assets/images/FISH_6000_Assignment_guide.pdf)
- [Graphical assignment summary - PDF](/assets/images/GraphicalSummary.pdf)
- [Class code of conduct - HTML](/courses/coursesCodeofConduct/) and [PDF](/assets/images/FISHCodeofConduct.pdf)

## Course Content

These slides are designed to be viewed on a computer - **not printed.** They contain hyperlinks to relevant content.

Dates below are accurate, but I will be updating slides week to week.

| **Week**  | **Date** | **Theme**  | **Updated?** |
|-----------|------------|-------------|---|
| 1         | September 10, 2018 | [The Production of Knowledge](/courses/6000SciComm/FISH6000Week1/) |
|2| September 17, 2018 | [The Science Publishing Ecosystem](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week2/) |
|3| September 24, 2018 | [Proposals](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week3/) | 
|4| October 1, 2018 | [Anatomy of a Science Paper Part 1](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week4/) |
|5| **Wed** October 10, 2018 | [Anatomy of a Science Paper Part 2](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week5/) |
|6| October 17, 2018 | [Oral Presentations](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week6) |
|7| October 24, 2018 | [Posters](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week7) |
|8| October 29, 2018 |  [Presentation Week](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week8) |
|9| November 5, 2017 | [Practicing Safe Science Communication + Popular Writing](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week9) |
|10| **Fri** November 16, 2017 | [Popular Communication](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week10) |
|11| November 19, 2017 | [Talking About Your Work](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week11) |
|12| November 26, 2017 | [Recap and Wrap-Up](/courses/6000SciComm/6000Week12) |
