---
layout: single
title: "Week 4: Anatomy of a Science Paper (Part 1)"
permalink: /courses/6000SciComm/6000Week4/
author_profile: false

---

**Oct 2, 2017**

Most science papers share a core structure, and include certain components that are necessary to communicate a scientific story. This week, we're going to look at those components, and break down how to effectively craft each part into a cohesive whole. Good writing habits will be a focus of this topic.

### Lecture Topics

* Establishing good writing habits
* The core sections of nearly every science paper
    + Title
    + Abstract
    + Methods
    + Results
    + Discussion
    + Acknowledgments and References
    + Figures and Tables

### In-class Activities

*  Power 1/4 Hour
*  Activating a writing team
*  Identifying verb tense and active vs. passive voice

### Readings

Required: Pauly, Daniel and Dirk Zeller (2006). “Catch reconstructions reveal that global marine fisheries catches are higher than reported and declining”. In: Nature Communications 10244. DOI:10.1038/ncomms10244. https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms10244.

Recommended: Chapters 4-5, and 8-15 of Heard, Stephen B. (2016). The Scientist's Guide to Writing: How to Write More Easily and Effectively throughout Your Scientific Career. Princeton University Press. 255 pp. 

## Details - Week 3

### Writing group

Students break into teams of three. These will be 'writing teams,' and their job will be to encourage and support each other in moving forward throughout the semester - both inside and outside the course.

Each week, time will be allocated for students to assemble with their writing group, and take a few minute to discuss:
  * What were your goals for last week?
  * Did you accomplish them? What worked and what didn't work?
  * What did you write last week?
  * What are my goals for this coming week?

Students will write down these points every week, in a paper or electronic journal. At the end of semester, they will receive a completion mark. 100% = did this every week.

Time = 15 min first week, 6-10 min each week thereafter, depending on group size

[A writing group template is available here](/assets/images/FISH_6000_Writing_team_template.docx)

### Identifying verb tense and active vs. passive voice

I carved out the methods section from today's paper and put it on [Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l906mOl6d1sIZABG_FRNCX8Uc1qDaduI-eJqmwH2hY4/edit?usp=sharing 
).

*Highlight* verb tenses:

  * Past tense: Green
  * Present tense: Blue
  * Future tense: Orange

__Underline__ active voice. 
*italicize* passive voice.

Discuss with a partner. How much of each tense was used? To what extent were the authors consistent in active vs. passive voice?

Time = 15 minutes + 5 minutes for discussion

# Lecture slides

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="40c59cdaf2d4444fab944887e6a29486" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

Slides available via [speakerdeck](https://speakerdeck.com/pandalusplatyceros/fish-6000-week-4-anatomy-of-a-science-paper-part-1)