---
layout: single
title: "Anatomy of a Science Paper (Part 1)"
permalink: /courses/6000SciComm/6000Week3/
author_profile: false

---

**September 25, 2017**

Most science papers share a core structure, and include certain components that are necessary to communicate a scientific story. This week, we're going to look at those components, and break down how to effectively craft each part into a cohesive whole. Good writing habits will be a focus of this topic.

### Lecture Topics

* Establishing good writing habits
* The core sections of nearly every science paper
    + Title
    + Abstract
    + Methods
    + Results
    + Discussion
    + Acknowledgments and References
    + Figures and Tables
* Focus: Writing an excellent Abstract

### In-class Activities

*  Power 1/4 Hour
*  Activating a writing team
*  Identifying verb tense and active vs. passive voice
*  Abstract review

### Readings

Required: Pauly, Daniel and Dirk Zeller (2006). “Catch reconstructions reveal that global marine fisheries catches are higher than reported and declining”. In: Nature Communications 10244. DOI:10.1038/ncomms10244. https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms10244.

Recommended: Chapters 4-5, and 8-15 of Heard, Stephen B. (2016). The Scientist's Guide to Writing: How to Write More Easily and Effectively throughout Your Scientific Career. Princeton University Press. 255 pp. 

## Details - Week 3

### Activity 1: Power 1/4 hour

For 15 minutes, students are to turn off email, internet, etc. and just write. Write about anything - proposal, methods, research ideas, general science musings. The objective is to get in the habit of writing in an uninhibited manner. Going forward, we will start every lecture this way, and so I won't articulate it on each lesson plan.

Time = 15 min

### Activity 2: Activating a writing group

Students break into teams of three. These will be 'writing teams,' and their job will be to encourage and support each other in moving forward throughout the semester - both inside and outside the course.

Each week, time will be allocated for students to assemble with their writing group, and take a few minute to discuss:
  * What were your goals for last week?
  * Did you accomplish them? What worked and what didn't work?
  * What did you write last week?
  * What are my goals for this coming week?

Students will write down these points every week, in a paper or electronic journal. At the end of semester, they will receive a completion mark. 100% = did this every week.

Time = 15 min first week, 6-10 min each week thereafter, depending on group size

### Activity 3: Identifying verb tense and active vs. passive voice

Select a science paper from https://sites.google.com/a/uw.edu/most-cited-fisheries/home/most-cited-in-2011.

Open the PDF and look at the methods section. *Highlight* verb tenses:

  * Past tense: <span style="color:green">Green</span>
  * Present tense: <span style="color:blue">Blue</span>
  * Future tense: <span style="color:orange">Orange</span>

__Black Underline__ active voice. 
__<span style="color:red"Red</span> underline__ passive voice.

Discuss with a partner. How much of each tense was used? To what extent were the authors consistent in active vs. passive voice?

Time = 15 minutes

### Activity 4: Abstract-writing exercise, and peer-review

Students will be given the Nature Guide to Abstracts. Apply the colour-coding system identified in the Guide to the paper they downloaded for Activity 3. 

Using colour-coding, identify the sentences that include
  * Basic intro
  * Detailed background
  * General problem
  * Here we show...
  * Main result
  * Context
  * Broader context
  
(10 minutes)

Then, get into pairs. Read the abstracts out loud to each other and show each others' colour-coding.Discuss whether the abstracts followed the Nature structure. What was missing, if anything? What was extraneous? Were these sentences easy to identify? 

After both partners show each other their work, discuss the abstracts more generally. Were they easy to follow? Do they make you want to read the paper? 

(10 minutes total)

Any thoughts, insights, or reflections can then be shared with the class

(5 minutes)

# Lecture slides

Coming soon!