_pages/6002Data.md, before:

---
layout: single
title: "FISH 6002: Data Collection, Management, and Display"
permalink: /courses/6002Data/
author_profile: false
---

Our class meets twice per week:
M: 15:00 to 16:00, T: 09:00 to 11:00

Classroom: W3018A

## Course documents 
- [Course syllabus](/courses/6002Data/6002Syllabus/)
- [Assignment guide](/courses/6002Data/6002Assignmentguide/) 
- [Class code of conduct - HTML](/courses/coursesCodeofConduct/) and [PDF](/assets/images/FISHCodeofConduct.pdf)

## Course Content

| **Week**  | **Dates**  | **Theme**  |  **Updated?** | 
|-----------|------------|-------------|-------|
|1| September 10 and 11  | [Data and Software in Fisheries](/courses/6002Data/6002Week1/)| Y |
|2| September 17 | [Introduction to R](/courses/6002Data/6002Week2/) | Y |
|3| September 24 and 25 | [Markdown and RStudio Workflow](/courses/6002Data/6002Week3) | Y |
|4| October 1 and 2 | [Intro to Tidy Data](/courses/6002Data/6002Week4/) | Y |
|5| **Tues Oct 9*** | [Visual Display of Data 1](/courses/6002Data/6002Week5/) | Y |
|6| October 16 and 17 | [Visual Display of Data 2](/courses/6002Data/6002Week6/) | Y |
|7| October 22 and 23 | [Working with Messy Data](/courses/6002Data/6002Week7) | Y |
|8| October 29 and 30 | [Collecting and Managing Tidy Data](/courses/6002Data/6002Week8) | Y | 
|9| November 5 and 6| [Visual Display of Data 3](/courses/6002Data/6002Week9) | Y |
|10| November 13 and **Fri** Nov 16| [Figures for Science Communication](/courses/6002Data/6002Week10) | Y |
|11| November 19 and 20  | [Maps](/courses/6002Data/6002Week11) | Y |
|12| November 26 and 27| [Interactive Plots](/courses/6002Data/6002Week12) | Y |

*In this week only, we will do a three-hour class, from 9:00 to 12:00

Commit message:

Update all the dates
dates

_pages/6002Data.md, after:

---
layout: single
title: "FISH 6002: Data Collection, Management, and Display"
permalink: /courses/6002Data/
author_profile: false
---

Our class meets twice per week:
M: 15:00 to 16:00, T: 09:00 to 11:00

Classroom: W3018A

## Course documents 
- [Course syllabus](/courses/6002Data/6002Syllabus/)
- [Assignment guide](/courses/6002Data/6002Assignmentguide/) 
- [Class code of conduct - HTML](/courses/coursesCodeofConduct/) and [PDF](/assets/images/FISHCodeofConduct.pdf)

## Course Content

**NOTE** Dates below are not updated. I am working to re-structure this as a condensed three-week course. Details TBA

| **Week**  | **Dates**  | **Theme**  |  **Updated?** | 
|-----------|------------|-------------|-------|
|1| September 10 and 11  | [Data and Software in Fisheries](/courses/6002Data/6002Week1/)| N |
|2| September 17 | [Introduction to R](/courses/6002Data/6002Week2/) | N |
|3| September 24 and 25 | [Markdown and RStudio Workflow](/courses/6002Data/6002Week3) | N |
|4| October 1 and 2 | [Intro to Tidy Data](/courses/6002Data/6002Week4/) | N |
|5| **Tues Oct 9*** | [Visual Display of Data 1](/courses/6002Data/6002Week5/) | N |
|6| October 16 and 17 | [Visual Display of Data 2](/courses/6002Data/6002Week6/) | N |
|7| October 22 and 23 | [Working with Messy Data](/courses/6002Data/6002Week7) | N |
|8| October 29 and 30 | [Collecting and Managing Tidy Data](/courses/6002Data/6002Week8) | N | 
|9| November 5 and 6| [Visual Display of Data 3](/courses/6002Data/6002Week9) | N |
|10| November 13 and **Fri** Nov 16| [Figures for Science Communication](/courses/6002Data/6002Week10) | N |
|11| November 19 and 20  | [Maps](/courses/6002Data/6002Week11) | N |
|12| November 26 and 27| [Interactive Plots](/courses/6002Data/6002Week12) | N |
