_pages/6002Week7.md, before:

---
layout: single
title: "Week 7: Working With Messy Data"
permalink: /courses/6002Data/6002Week7/
author_profile: false

---

Most of the datasets that fisheries scientists work with have problems.

In this week we will focus on working with imperfect datasets, and discuss how to identify and reproducibly correct common entry errors in data.  

### Lecture Topics
* Identifying common problems:
  - Mixed data types
  - Impossible values
  - Hard-to-detect issues (blanks, numbers with "e")
  - Data entry errors (typos, big or small numbers)
* Data exploration as part of the verification workflow

### Resources

The Data Import and Transformation cheat sheets are critical to today's activity. I enclosed both in the /resources subfolder of this week's Project.

Today's data are adapted from content created by Derek Ogle. His [FishR website](http://derekogle.com/fishR/) is fantastic, and I strongly recommend taking a look at it (and checking out [his book](http://derekogle.com/IFAR/)). 

### In-class Activities

* Clean up a dataset

## Code and Data

* [Week 5 Project](/assets/images/FISH6002_Week5.zip)

## Lecture slides

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="ee510a9b67e449d89f01ceed7ac20395" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

Slides available via [speakerdeck](https://speakerdeck.com/pandalusplatyceros/fish-6002-week-5-working-with-messy-data)

Commit message:

restore week 7 for 6002
fish 6002 week 7

_pages/6002Week7.md, after:

---
layout: single
title: "Week 7: Displaying Data Visually"
permalink: /courses/6002Data/6002Week7/
author_profile: false

---

Visually displaying data through figures is a critical part of producing high quality science. The amount of information you can glean from a well-designed figure is impressive, and so today we will learn how to make basic figures in R.

### Lecture Topics
* Basic principles of effective data display
* ggplot2 vs. base plot
* Contrasting plots for common data types

### Resources

See this resource for basic plotting: http://r4ds.had.co.nz/data-visualisation.html

ggplot2 cheat sheet: https://www.rstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/ggplot2-cheatsheet.pdf

R base plot cheat sheet: http://publish.illinois.edu/johnrgallagher/files/2015/10/BaseGraphicsCheatsheet.pdf

## Code and Data

* TBD

## Lecture slides

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="ee510a9b67e449d89f01ceed7ac20395" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

Slides available via [speakerdeck](https://speakerdeck.com/pandalusplatyceros/fish-6002-week-5-displaying-data-visually-1)
