_pages/6003Stats.md, before:

---
layout: single
title: "FISH 6003: Statistics and Study Design for Fisheries Science"
permalink: /courses/6003Stats/
author_profile: false
---

Our class meets twice per week:
Mondays, 0900 to 0950, Room W2041
Tuesdays, 0900 to 1050, Room W1003

## Course documents 

- [Course syllabus - HTML](/courses/6003Stats/6003Syllabus/) and [PDF]
- [Assignment guide - HTML](/courses/6003Stats/6003Assignmentguide/) and [PDF]
- [Class code of conduct - HTML](/courses/coursesCodeofConduct/) and [PDF](/assets/images/FISHCodeofConduct.pdf)

## Course Content

| **Week**  | **Dates**  | **Theme**  | 
|-----------|------------|-------------|
| 1*       |  *January  8 and 9*   | [Introduction, and the Philosophy of Statistics]|
|2| January 15 and 16 | [Data Exploration] |
|3| January 22 and 23  | [Simple Linear Regression]  |
|4| January 29 and 30 | [Multiple Linear Regression] |
|5| February 5 and 6 | [Model Selection] |
|6| February 12 and 13 | [Generalized Linear Models]|
|X| February 19-23 | [*Winter semester break*] |
|7| February 26 and 27 | Mixed Models] |
|8| March 5 and 6 | [Generalized Linear Mixed Models] |
|9| March 12 and 13 | [Power Analysis] |
|10| March 19 and 20 | [Meta-Analysis] |
|11| March 26 and 27 | [TBD] |
|12| April 3 | [TBD] |

* I will be absent on the first week of courses. Over the first few weeks, we will schedule three hours that work for everyone to make up for the missing class time.

Commit message:

Updating some course content
FISH 6003

_pages/6003Stats.md, after:

---
layout: single
title: "FISH 6003: Statistics and Study Design for Fisheries Science"
permalink: /courses/6003Stats/
author_profile: false
---

Our class meets twice per week:
Mondays, 0900 to 0950, Room W2041
Tuesdays, 0900 to 1050, Room W1003

## Course documents 

- [Course syllabus - HTML](/courses/6003Stats/6003Syllabus/) and [PDF]
- [Assignment guide - HTML](/courses/6003Stats/6003Assignmentguide/) and [PDF]
- [Class code of conduct - HTML](/courses/coursesCodeofConduct/) and [PDF](/assets/images/FISHCodeofConduct.pdf)

## Course Content

| **Week**  | **Dates**  | **Theme**  | 
|-----------|------------|-------------|
| 1*       |  *January  8 and 9*   | [Introduction, and the Philosophy of Statistics]|
|2| January 15 and 16 | [Data Exploration] |
|3| January 22 and 23  | [Simple Linear Regression]  |
|4| January 29 and 30 | [Multiple Linear Regression] | 
|5| February 5 and 6 | [Model Selection] |
|6| February 12 and 13 | [Generalized Linear Models]|
|X| February 19-23 | [*Winter semester break*] |
|7| February 26 and 27 | [Mixed Models] |
|8| March 5 and 6 | [Generalized Linear Mixed Models] |
|9| March 12 and 13 | [Power Analysis] |
|10| March 19 and 20 | [Intro to Bayesian Statistics 1] |
|11| March 26 and 27 | [Intro to Bayesian Statistics 2] |
|12| April 3 | [Meta-Analysis] |

* I will be absent on the first week of courses. Over the first few weeks, we will schedule three hours that work for everyone to make up for the missing class time. **Our first in-class lecture will be Jan 15**

Please note that, as this is the first offering of FISH 6003, the content - and order of content delivery - is subject to change.
