_pages/6003Week5.md, before:

---
layout: single
title: "Week 5: Model Validation and Selection"
permalink: /courses/6003Stats/6003Week5/
author_profile: false

---

## Feb 5-6, 2018

At this point we know how to specify, execute, and interpret output from linear models. But how do we know if they're even working?

This week we will focus on model specification - how to determine what covariates to include, and how to assess whether the model has fit your data well.

### Lecture Topics

* Intro to some terminology: Model selection and validation
* Four schools of thought on model selection:
	- Design a good experiment and keep everything in
	- Stepwise selection
	- Information theoretic approach
	- Hypothesis testing
* Reporting results of a model validation
	
### In-class Activities

As always, this class will have a mixture of R code and lecture slides

### Pre-class Prep

Please read:

[Zuur, A. F. and Ieno, E. N. (2016), A protocol for conducting and presenting results of regression-type analyses. Methods Ecol Evol, 7: 636–645. doi:10.1111/2041-210X.12577](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/2041-210X.12577/abstract)

Full comprehension is not expected at this stage. 

**Optional**

- [McGill, B. (2015). How many terms should you have in your model before it becomes statistical machismo?](https://dynamicecology.wordpress.com/2015/02/05/how-many-terms-in-your-model-before-statistical-machismo/)

### Files

TBA

- [TBA]


### Slides

TBA

Commit message:

6003 - Week 5 content
Uploaded full lecture plus exercises

_pages/6003Week5.md, after:

---
layout: single
title: "Week 5: Model Validation and Selection"
permalink: /courses/6003Stats/6003Week5/
author_profile: false

---

## Feb 5-6, 2018

At this point we know how to specify, execute, and interpret output from linear models. But how do we know if they're even working?

This week we will focus on model specification - how to determine what covariates to include, and how to assess whether the model has fit your data well.

### Lecture Topics

* Model validation
* Standardization of covariates
* Variance Inflation Factor  
* Model selection
		
### In-class Activities

As always, this class will have a mixture of R code and lecture slides

### Pre-class Prep

Please read:

[Zuur, A. F. and Ieno, E. N. (2016), A protocol for conducting and presenting results of regression-type analyses. Methods Ecol Evol, 7: 636–645. doi:10.1111/2041-210X.12577](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/2041-210X.12577/abstract)

Full comprehension is not expected at this stage. 

**Optional**

- [McGill, B. (2015). How many terms should you have in your model before it becomes statistical machismo?](https://dynamicecology.wordpress.com/2015/02/05/how-many-terms-in-your-model-before-statistical-machismo/)

### Helpful resources

[Diagnostic tools for linear regression](https://www.statmethods.net/stats/rdiagnostics.html)

[Schielzeth, H. (2010). Simple means to improve the interpretability of regression coefficients. Methods in Ecology and Evolution, 1(2), 103-113.](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.2041-210X.2010.00012.x/pdf)

[Johnson, J. B., & Omland, K. S. (2004). Model selection in ecology and evolution. Trends in Ecology & Evolution, 19(2), 101-108.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169534703003458)

If you are interested in model averaging (which we won't cover in this course)

[Burnham, K. P., & Anderson, D. R. (2003). Model selection and multimodel inference: a practical information-theoretic approach. Springer Science & Business Media.](http://www.springer.com/gp/book/9780387953649)

Information theoretic approach example

[Fukuda Y, Manolis C, Saalfeld K, Zuur A (2015) Dead or Alive? Factors Affecting the Survival of Victims during Attacks by Saltwater Crocodiles (Crocodylus porosus) in Australia. PLoS ONE 10(5): e0126778. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0126778](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0126778)

### Files

[FISH6003_Week5_ModelSelection.zip](/assets/images/FISH6003_Week5_ModelSelection.zip)

### Slides

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="29b323cdc958449cb040ae1760b74ae2" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
Slides available on [Speakerdeck](https://speakerdeck.com/pandalusplatyceros/fish-6003-week-5-model-validation-and-selection)
