_pages/programdocs.md, before:

---
layout: single
title: "Fisheries Science Graduate Program Documents"
permalink: /programdocs/
author_profile: true
---

## Important Links for students

- [SOF Graduate Handbook](/assets/images/SOF_handbook.pdf)
- [Funding Plan Word Doc](/assets/images/Funding_Plan.docx)
- [Letter of Understanding Template - Student/Supervisor](/assets/images/LOU-SupervisorStudent.docx)
- [Letter of Understanding Template - Committee Members](/assets/images/LOU-Committee.docx)
- [Marine Institute School of Fisheries graduate programs](https://www.mi.mun.ca/programsandcourses/programs-graduatelevel/)
- [List of prospective supervisors at the Marine Institute](https://www.mi.mun.ca/researchsupervisors/)
- [Memorial University School of Graduate Studies](https://www.mun.ca/sgs/)
- [SGS Forms for students and faculty](http://www.mun.ca/sgs/go/Forms_GOS/)
- [SOF Grad Program Overview*](/assets/images/SOF_grad_program_overview_abridged.pdf)
- [SOF GRAD Fund Guidelines](/assets/images/MISOF-GRADFund.pdf)
- [Ph.D Comprehensive Exam Guidelines](/assets/images/MISOF-CompExam.pdf)
- [MUN Guide for New Graduate Students](https://www.mun.ca/sgs/newstudents/Guide_for_New_Students.pdf)


*This is an abridged version of the original document use to propose the graduate program. It is abdriged, and the present incarnation of the program has evolved slightly from the original proposal. We present this only to help understand the rationale and goals of this particular program. Up-to-date information is included in the [SOF Graduate Handbook](/assets/images/SOF_handbook.pdf)

Cod clipart is from [Clipartsfree.net](http://www.clipartsfree.net/svg/23277-cod-fish-vector.html)

Commit message:

update grad program documents
See above

_pages/programdocs.md, after:

---
layout: single
title: "Fisheries Science Graduate Program Documents"
permalink: /programdocs/
author_profile: true
---

## Program Documents

- [SOF Graduate Handbook](/assets/images/SOF_handbook.pdf)
- [Supervisor Letter of Commitment](/assets/images/MI SOF - Letter of Commitment.pdf)
- [Funding Plan Word Doc](/assets/images/Funding_Plan.docx)
- [Letter of Understanding Template - Student/Supervisor](/assets/images/LOU-SupervisorStudent.docx)
- [Letter of Understanding Template - Committee Members](/assets/images/LOU-Committee.docx)
- [Marine Institute School of Fisheries graduate programs](https://www.mi.mun.ca/programsandcourses/programs-graduatelevel/)
- [Ph.D Comprehensive Exam Guidelines](/assets/images/MISOF-CompExam.pdf)
- [Recommendation for final examiners for Defense](/assets/images/MI SOF - Recommendations for Examiners - fillable.pdf)
- [Terms of Reference for Fast Track Transfers](/assets/images/MI SOF - TOR for fast-tracks v1.pdf) 
- [MI graduate program orientation](/assets/images/Marine Institute grad program orientation.pdf)

## Helpful Links

- [SGS Forms for students and faculty](http://www.mun.ca/sgs/go/Forms_GOS/)
- [List of prospective supervisors at the Marine Institute](https://www.mi.mun.ca/researchsupervisors/)
- [Memorial University School of Graduate Studies](https://www.mun.ca/sgs/)
- [MUN Guide for New Graduate Students](https://www.mun.ca/sgs/newstudents/)
- [SOF Grad Program Overview*](/assets/images/SOF_grad_program_overview_abridged.pdf)

*This is an abridged version of the original document use to propose the graduate program. It is abdriged, and the present incarnation of the program has evolved slightly from the original proposal. We present this only to help understand the rationale and goals of this particular program. Up-to-date information is included in the [SOF Graduate Handbook](/assets/images/SOF_handbook.pdf)

Cod clipart is from [Clipartsfree.net](http://www.clipartsfree.net/svg/23277-cod-fish-vector.html)
